So the first thing that we wanna do
here is we're going to just build
the simplest possible Jamstack site.
And so it's gonna be no dependencies,
no frameworks,
we're not gonna use any anything.
We're gonna write an HTML file, and
we're gonna put it in the browser.
So in this basic folder,
we can delete this gitkeep.
That's just you have to have a file and
a folder else get one
let you put it up there.
And then I'm gonna create a new file and
I'm gonna call this index.html.
And in here, let me close this down.
I'm gonna set up let's see,
we want to doc type and
then we need to set language of English.
When was the last time that you
actually wrote your own HTML page?
Like I never do this anymore
if you done one recently?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
Yeah I like this to me is so
it's so fun because I just never
really do the structural stuff anymore
because there's always a boilerplate.
There's always something
that sets this up for you.
So it's kind of fun to dive in and
look at what all this stuff means.
So then we're gonna add a meta tag,
we need to add a charset.
So we'll do UTF-8,
we need to set up the viewport so
that it works on smaller screens.
And we'll set the content to width,
device width and
then we'll set the initial
scale to 1.0.
After we've got that we're going to tell
it to try to use edge stuff if we can.
I'm not sure if this is still
a thing that is useful.
I haven't talked to anybody on the edge
team to know if this is still a meaningful
thing to do, but
just in case let's give it a shot.
And so we'll say ie=edge.
I've often wish that that would work,
that you could just like put something
in here and say, I wish my browser
worked like this and it would just work.
Then we're gonna add a title and
we can call this My First JAMstack Site.
We'll say website.
Okay, so once we've got the heading here,
we're going to add a body
tag will add a main tag.
And then let's set up a heading
will say Hello Frontend Masters and
then down here.
Say like, I like to write codes sometimes
Now I'm excited to be here, so
let's use an exclamation point.
We can actually just open this in
the browser and what I'm gonna do
because I don't want to, we could just
open this in our file system, but
the problem is is that browsers have
like cross origin request stuff.
So instead,
I'm just gonna use a little utility.
So in the command line,
I can just run npx serve.
Let me move into the basic so we're
gonna move into basic first make sure
you're actually in this
jamstack-intro/sections/basic.
And once you're there,
you can run npx serve.
>> Does it have to npm install?
>> Nope, npx will kind of
manage all of that for you.
And so, once that is finished running,
this opened up on localhost:5000.
So I'm gonna open that over here and
there we go, we got a website.
It's now being served,
you've written a JAMstack Site but
let's take this a little bit further.
Let's actually get into what a more,
like what an app might look like.
Like what if we wrote a tiny little app?
So start, let's save our work.
And then I'm gonna check out a new branch,
and we'll call this fem-progress.
And I'm going to check things here,
so I have this.
This is like a little GIT hack.
If you run git status-sb, it simplifies
the diff to show you like what's new and
what's not tracked and all that it's way
easier to look at than git status,
which is like huge and hard to read.
So I've alias that.
So instead of having to type out
git status SP I can just type S.
And it does that I learned that trick from
Christmas Guardian it changed my life.
So I'm going to add all this and
we will get commit will say basic HTML.
Okay, so now that we've got some HTML,
we can move on and
let's write some styles.
We'll keep our styles pretty simple
here but I'm gonna add a style sheet
in the basic folder,
we'll call it style.css.
And let's just write some fairly
straight forward boiler plate,
we'll set the text color on the whole
side to a nice kind of dark grey,
we'll set the font family to sans- serif,
make the font size a little bit bigger,
we can make the margin 0, so
that, that just removes some
kind of like browser defaults.
Then, on our main tag, we want to give
it some breathing room on the top and
bottom and then centre it left and right.
We will set a max width of
90 viewport width units.
I need to look up what VW stands for.
That's what it means in my brain.
But I think the port width but
it effectively means that will
be 5% off the left and right.
And then we'll set the words to 50
characters, which is kind of a fun like,
it uses the text size for width, which is
cool, it's really helpful if you wanna get
your line length legibility, so
that depending on how big someone zooms
the window it will still not be like ultra
narrow, or way too much text per line.
And then because we want our headings
to be a little bit visually emphasized,
will make them just slightly darker.
So this is our style sheet.
And to actually use this in the site,
we need to include it.
And so
we're going to go into Our HTML again.
All right, so let's go into our HTML.
And now we're going to add a link tag.
So it's going to be
the relationship is a style sheet.
And that lives at style.css.
If I run npx serve again.
I can reload the page.
And now we got some basic styles in place.
Okay, good deal, right like we were
starting to see this come together.
It's starting to look very professional.
I could put this in my portfolio
right now let's save our work.
Well, you got to start shutting
down a little bit faster than that.
So I'm going to get at everything.
We will just check to make
sure that's all we updated.
Git commit basic.
So I'm using the semantic release,
like git commit fashion, I think this
is the angular commit conventions.
I do it out of habit, not because it's
something that I think you should do,
but it does make like change logs really
easy, if that's something you're into.
Let's add styles, and then I'm gonna
push actually, let me get this setup so
that we can origin in progress okay.
So.
>> There's a typo and initial scale.
>> There is.
Okay.